In this demo, I am going to show you how to use the Node Selector using labels.
I'm going to show you how this works using minikube, because not everyone has an AWS cluster
but it really makes sense only if you have multiple nodes. Our minikube only has one node,
but I can still show you how it works.
I have in my deployments folder, I have a "helloworld" with a node selector.
So let's see what's in here.
It's a normal pod specification here, but we have the "nodeSelector", so we can only run on hardware high-spec.
I am going to first show you the labels that are nodes.
So here you can see the labels.
So, we don't really have the label "hardware: high-spec".
What is that going to happen,
when we try to start this one.
I'll show it to you.
"Kubectl create" over this "helloworld- deployment".
Let's have a look.
We have three "Desired",
three "Running", three "Up-to-Date",
but zero "Available".
Let's have a look at their pods.
It's all "Pending", so let's have a look at one of the pods, "kubectl describe pod".
And it says, "failed to fit in any node".
This pod is trying to run on one of the nodes and needs to match the nodeSelector and the matching
was of course using this "hardware: high-spec", but there is no "hardware: high-spec" key-value available
on any of our nodes.
So, first we need to add the label and I can do that using "kubectl label nodes", the name of this node was "minikube"
and I want "hardware" equals "high-spec" as a label.
So, "node 'minikube' labeled"
"Kubectl get nodes" again with "--show-labels"
And what does it say now? "hardware" equals "high-spec"
So now, we just have to wait a little bit, because the node needs to figure out that this node now has a label
and you can see in our case it didn't need a lot of time.
It is now running.
So, "kubectl describe pod", and then let's take this pod,
and we see in the beginning we have a warning,
it couldn't schedule the pod, it is not running.
But once we changed the label, it could actually run on this node.
If you have multiple nodes, you can specify the label on certain nodes, and your possible only then be
scheduled on these nodes, very useful if you have different types of hardware,
if you want to make sure that a certain workload only runs on a certain type of cluster
then you can use this.
So, that's it for this demo.
You can try it out yourself using minikube or even on the AWS cluster.